---
title: 5 Lessons Marketers Can Learn from Taylor Swift
author: Michelle Heathers
date: 2018-08-01
slug: /blog/tips/5-lessons-marketers-can-learn-from-taylor-swift
cover_image: ./cover.jpg
categories:
  - Tips
---

Most people wouldn’t think to mention Taylor Swift and marketing lessons in
the same sentence. After all, what do a pop and country singer icon and
marketing have in common?

More than you might think.

A few years ago, I was listening to a marketing podcast and came across an [episode about Taylor Swift](https://www.novelmarketing.com/?s=taylor+swift). Naturally, I was intrigued at the connection. The episode explained how
Swift handles her career, particularly marketing decisions.

Here are 5 takeaways to help empower your marketing efforts.

### 1.  Show Transparency

Do you like when a company seems to be holding something back? Chances are
neither do your customers. By transparency I don’t mean posting your
political views on Twitter or writing a blog post where you gripe about Joe
B. who has a complaint about your product every other week.

What I do mean is being real, being authentic. Act professional and
courteous, yes, but don’t become so mechanical about your interactions that
you start sounding robotic. Don’t sound so scripted that people aren’t able
to relate to your message. And, don’t be afraid to admit you aren’t perfect.
If you make a mistake, own up to it, and perhaps most important, show
humility. An honest, humble approach will be attractive to your customers
and give them a positive view of your brand.

### 2. Be Willing to Say “No”

This is a hard lesson to learn. Often, the temptation is to say “yes” to
every opportunity, every possibility, every offer. However, learning how to
restrain yourself is a good habit to develop.

How does it apply to marketing? One example from the podcast was how Swift
refused to let her brand be devalued by putting her music on Spotify for no
charge.

For marketers, this can translate into examining the pros and cons of
providing freebies, whether that’s a piece of premium content or giveaways
as part of a contest you’re running. Don’t get me wrong, giving things away
is a great marketing tactic if used correctly (more on that later). But
avoid falling into the mindset of constantly offering giveaways for the sake
of growing your email list, generating leads, and building your online
following. At some point you need to start charging, and your ideal
customers, those who are in it for more than freebies, will be willing to
pay.

There’s a time to give and a time to sell. The key is to strike the right
balance.

### 3. Use Social Channels Differently

This means don’t make your Twitter feed and your Instagram handle and your
LinkedIn profile all clones of you Facebook Page. Mix in variety based on
the type of followers each of your channels has.

This one can be a bit tricky for a couple different reasons:

- Content creation takes time
- Resources are often limited

It may not be realistic to send out 20 unique Tweets per week as well as a
post per day on FB and LinkedIn if there’s no crossover in the content. As I
said, the key is to understand your audience. Your LinkedIn followers are
likely more business-oriented and corporate and would appreciate a
thoughtful blog post about handling workplace conflict, while your Facebook
fans may be more inclined to enjoy a GIF and a lighthearted post about
communication problems.

Ultimately, it’s your responsibility to know your customers’ personas and
give them [meaningful, relevant content](/blog/social-media/your-social-channels-deserve-better-5-tips-for-creating-riveting-content)
. There should be continuity of your brand across your channels, and you
certainly want to avoid draining your time and energy on coming up with too
many unique posts. However, don’t be afraid to throw in some variation that
will help keep your audience on each channel engaged and interested.

### 4. Exhibit a Giving Spirit

This ties back into the first point, and again, I’m not saying give away
your content, your services, the kitchen sink. However, people appreciate
receiving, and by giving something away without charge, you’ll form a
connection and create a positive impression of your brand.

In a sense, providing valuable content on your social media sites and blog
is giving that content away. Adding in premium content like a free eBook or
industry report is a great way to build rapport with potential customers,
get your brand’s name out, and gain some exposure. Free content will garner
like and trust, and position you as an industry expert, all of which will
make people more inclined to purchase your product or hire you.

### 5. Be Customer Crazy

The biggest takeaway from the podcast episode was a story one of the hosts
told near the end, about how in 2014 Swift picked a number of her most avid
fans and learned about them by stalking them on social media—an action that
became known as [Taylurking](http://www.vulture.com/2014/10/taylor-swift-queen-of-celebrity-social-media.html). Not to be creepy, but so that [she could send handwritten notes and gifts](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j3yyF31jbKo).

Not only did she make her fans feel special, it made her seem genuine,
giving, and all around awesome. A celebrity who takes time to personally
invest in her followers? Talk about making a statement.

While I’m not suggesting you stalk your customers or spend hours penning
personal cards, this principle is a great one to keep in mind when
marketing. How can your efforts make your customers feel appreciated,
special, like the most important thing to you? (Hint: because they are.)

Marketing in the 21st century isn’t just about promoting, [especially when it comes to social media](/blog/social-media-tips/why-you-should-stop-thinking-of-social-media-as-marketing). People want to connect, to feel included. The more you genuinely care
about your customers, the more loyal you can expect them to be.

In summary, when approaching your marketing, don’t be afraid to be real,
learn the value in saying no, look for ways to use different content on
different channels, be generous with the content you give away, and above
all show that caring about your customers is a top priority.

What are some of your favorite marketing tips? Let us know in the comments
below!
